README.md, before:

# some TypeScript practice

## 1. using yarn for package dependencies

## 2. install lite-server via npm, can use yarn

npm install --save-dev lite-server &

## 3. update package.json to add "start" of "lite-server" in "script" field

## 4. start lite-server

npm start &

## 5. note, Visual Code Studio VSCode also has Plugin (lite-server), from there, just plugin (may not need to update package.json), and then start the server (default port 5500,  npm start 3000 by default)

## 6. TypeScript enum transpiled to JavaScript function
1. enum ENVS {DEV, QA, PC, PROD};
2. In JavaScript, transpiled, as

```JavaScript
var ENVS;
(function (ENVS)) {
    ENVS[ENVS["DEV"] = 0] = "DEV";
    ENVS[ENVS["QA"] = 1] = "QA";
    ENVS[ENVS["PC"] = 2] = "PC";
    ENVS[ENVS["PROD"] = 3] = "PROD";
})(ENVS || (ENVS = {}));
```


 > the thing in that ENVS object, passed to the anonymous function, looks like:
 >

1. Array ENVS[0] of "DEV" etc;  and 
2. Object:  ENVS["DEV"] = 0;

***


## 7. union type -- string | number | boolean

```TypeScript
function add(n1: string | number, n2 : string | number) {
    if (typeof (n1) === 'number' && typeof (n2) === 'number') {
        return (+n1) + (+n2);  // note +n1 forces to make sure n1 is number, otherwise transpiler error
    } else {
        return n1.toString() + n2.toString();
    }
}
```

## 8. literal type

```TypeScript
function add(n1: string | number,
             n2: string | number,
             resultPresentation: 'as-number' | 'as-text') {
    if (typeof(n1) === 'number' && typeof(n2) === 'number' || resultPresentation === 'as-number') {
        return +n1 + +n2;
    } else {
        return n1.toString() + n2.toString();
    }
}
```

## 9. type alias

```TypeScript

type User = {name: string; age: number};

function greet(usr: User) {
    ...
}
```

## 10. Function type usage

```TypeScript

function add(n1: number, n2: number): number {
    return n1 + n2;
}

// Function type used to define a variable to accept specific Function-type: here, 2 number parameters and returning a number
let aFunc: (a: number, b: number) => number;
aFunc = add;

console.log(aFunc(21, 3));
```

Commit message:

add some small updates, and new notes on Interface not being transpiled into JS

README.md, after:

# some TypeScript practice

## 1. using yarn for package dependencies

## 2. install lite-server via npm, can use yarn

npm install --save-dev lite-server &

## 3. update package.json to add "start" of "lite-server" in "script" field

## 4. start lite-server   (need to be in the project directory; sometimes, VS default dir on shell command, is where VS runs)

npm start &

## 5. note, Visual Code Studio VSCode also has Plugin (lite-server), from there, just plugin (may not need to update package.json), and then start the server (default port 5500,  npm start 3000 by default)

## 6. TypeScript enum transpiled to JavaScript function
1. enum ENVS {DEV, QA, PC, PROD};
2. In JavaScript, transpiled, as

```JavaScript
var ENVS;
(function (ENVS)) {
    ENVS[ENVS["DEV"] = 0] = "DEV";
    ENVS[ENVS["QA"] = 1] = "QA";
    ENVS[ENVS["PC"] = 2] = "PC";
    ENVS[ENVS["PROD"] = 3] = "PROD";
})(ENVS || (ENVS = {}));
```


 > the thing in that ENVS object, passed to the anonymous function, looks like:
 >

1. Array ENVS[0] of "DEV" etc;  and 
2. Object:  ENVS["DEV"] = 0;

***


## 7. union type -- string | number | boolean

```TypeScript
function add(n1: string | number, n2 : string | number) {
    if (typeof (n1) === 'number' && typeof (n2) === 'number') {
        return (+n1) + (+n2);  // note +n1 forces to make sure n1 is number, otherwise transpiler error
    } else {
        return n1.toString() + n2.toString();
    }
}
```

## 8. literal type

```TypeScript
function add(n1: string | number,
             n2: string | number,
             resultPresentation: 'as-number' | 'as-text') {
    if (typeof(n1) === 'number' && typeof(n2) === 'number' || resultPresentation === 'as-number') {
        return +n1 + +n2;
    } else {
        return n1.toString() + n2.toString();
    }
}
```

## 9. type alias

```TypeScript

type User = {name: string; age: number};

function greet(usr: User) {
    ...
}
```

## 10. Function type usage

```TypeScript

function add(n1: number, n2: number): number {
    return n1 + n2;
}

// Function type used to define a variable to accept specific Function-type: here, 2 number parameters and returning a number
let aFunc: (a: number, b: number) => number;
aFunc = add;

console.log(aFunc(21, 3));
```

## 11. TypeScript Interfaces are NOT transpiled to JavaScript

TS Interfaces, similar to Java Interface, but different in the sense that TS Interfaces are not transpiled into JS.
